Task 1: Data Preparation
Import data into the notebook, check for data quality and consistency, and combine the required datasets into a single data frame.
For example, extract “Active_Month” or Active_Year” from the “Order_date” 
Likewise, you can also extract “Prome_Activation_Month” and “Promo_Ending_Month” from the “Redemption_Date” and “Valitdity_Till_Date” columns, respectively.
Note: These are just a few examples, for your better understanding. You may or may not consider these relevant as per your analysis, so keep experimenting with data pre-processing!


Task 2: Creating Customer Cohorts & Analyzing the Customer Retention
In this task we will understand what cohort analysis is and how it is evaluated. From Task1, we hope you have already organized your data in a single dataframe by combining the data from all the datasets!
What is Cohort Analysis?
In simple words, “cohort” refers to a group of individuals who share a common characteristic or experience within a particular time period. Cohort Analysis is commonly when businesses want to monitor and compare user behavior analysis. For example, assume 100 users signed up on Gameflix in January 2020. This group of users is referred to as the “Jan-2020” cohort, which consists of 100 new users!
You can think of writing a few lines of codes for doing the transformation that will help you to segregate the users into different cohorts.
What is Retention Percentage?
The retention percentage for a given cohort indicates the proportion of users retained from one month to the next, providing insights into customer retention over time. It is calculated using the formula:
The purpose of calculating “retention percentage” is to typically measure the proportion of users who remain subscribed over a specific period after initially subscribing.
Calculate Customer- Retention by Cohort
This measure focuses on tracking the percentage of customers from various cohorts (groups based on the time they became customers) who continue to make purchases or remain active over time. Here’s how you typically approach it:
Define Cohorts: Group customers based on the time period they made their first subscription (or placed the first order) or became active (e.g., monthly cohorts).
Calculate Retention Rate: Determine how many customers from each cohort continue to engage with Gameflix as a subscriber over subsequent periods (e.g., months, years). You are expected to arrive at KPI’s like - Average Month retentions percentage, Month Active Users etc.
Visualization: Plot retention rates over time to identify trends. Comment on the insights about whether newer cohorts are more or less likely to stay engaged compared to older ones.
It is through these parameters that Gameflix will be able to determine what percentage of their initial subscriber base remains with them at the end of the period, excluding any new subscribers to focus purely on the retention of existing customers.
Now moving on to creating the monthly cohort similarly to the below screenshot:
Here in the above screenshot of monthly-cohort, the "Month_Active" is being taken on the horizontal axis. The "Month_Active" metric calculates the number of months a subscriber remains active on Gameflix.
For instance, if an order is placed on February 3rd, 2022, its month active count would be 0 for February 2022, 1 for March 2022, and so forth, indicating each subsequent month of continued activity since the order placement date.
Build this “Cohort table” and provide insights after analyzing it. Additionally, you must plot the trend line showing the user count over the months and years. We also recommend thinking about analyzing from the promotional plan perspective to suggest insights on which of the promo plans is performing well for Gameflix’s promotional strategy.
Note : Please update the Python notebook on GitHub or Drive and save the output in CSV or Excel format.


Task 3: Customer Lifetime Value (CLTV)
Customer Lifetime Value is the total revenue a business can expect from a customer over their entire relationship with the company. The basic formula for calculating CLTV is the following (1):
(Average Order Value) x (Number of Repeat Sales) x (Average Retention Time)
For example, let’s say subscribers pay Rs 1000 per month and the average time that a person remains a subscriber in Gameflix is 3 years. Then the lifetime value of each customer is (according to the formula above):
Rs 1,000 per month x 12 months’ x 3 years = Rs 36,000. This means each customer is worth a lifetime value of Rs 36,000.
Before building the CLTV chart, we hope you’ve already built the monthly cohort revenue chart in Task 2. We expect you to similar calculations given below to begin your analysis.
 You need to analyze the total revenue generated by each cohort throughout its lifetime. Each month, new revenue is accumulated until there are no active customers left in the cohort. This is an effective way to illustrate how Gameflix is steadily increasing its revenue over time.
Total Cohort Revenue: Total Cohort Revenue is calculated by simply adding all the monthly payments together to get a total for each cohort.
The Average Revenue Per Customer 
The average revenue per customer is calculated by taking the total cohort revenue and dividing it by the number of customers.
Your final output will be revenue cohorts and customer lifetime value by cohort charts (in case you need to include the gross margin, you can take 65% gross margin for doing it).
 Why Gross Margin?
Calculating CLTV tells you how much revenue you're getting from each customer, but not how much profit.
To get a more accurate idea of the profitability of each customer, you'll need to factor in your gross margin.
